Jonathan Galarza
Hey, Gustavo. Hey, Dave. And Jonathan. 

davidhaynes
Good morning, everyone. 

Marcelo Llerena
Morning, guys. Good afternoon. 

jorgehurtado
Hi, guys. What's up? Hey, everyone. 

Carlos Eduardo Pérez
What is up, everyone? 

Donovan Hiland
All right, there we go. See how many note takers we can fit into this meeting. 

Carlos Eduardo Pérez
At this point, let's just have the note takers take. 

Donovan Hiland
Yeah, you guys can all leave. Your note takers are here. You're good. Hello? 

Matheus Teixeira
Yes. 

Donovan Hiland
I'm thinking. What's up? I don't want to take too long. Do you want to make sure we get, you know, a good amount of people here? Maybe we can give, like, another minute, and then I'll jump in. But we only have 30 minutes, so we won't wait too long. All right, let's do this thing. Well, what's going on, guys? Welcome to the first AI Development, what I call this thing, AI Development office hours meeting. Today is going to be kind of presentation. Just because it's the first one, I want to get us all started on the right foot. I don't know that it's always going to be that way. You know, I don't want to. I don't want the preparation to get in the way of us being able to share things and. And learn. So, yeah, bear with me. Today we might do presentations, we might not. But I'm excited. I am excited. Let's see. I think Pedro joined, so a couple of things. Let me. Well, I guess speaking of the presentation, let me. So you guys should be able to see. Yeah, there we go. Nice. Alrighty. Well, welcome, guys. Thanks for coming. We are. Well, let me take a step back, so I think it's helpful for you guys. Some of you guys may have already heard me talk about this. I think I probably have mentioned some of these things in the all hands. I've also met with some teams and. And so some of. If this is things you've already heard, great. But hopefully there's some new things. And. And the idea is that we can get everyone up to speed kind of at the same time across Raven. So let me talk about just big picture really quick. One of our primary goals at Raven this year is to lean really hard into AI, AI and AI driven development. So some of you are already pretty, you know, involved, pretty deep into it. Some of you guys are dabbling. There are probably some who haven't really started a whole lot of. I think that's okay too, for now. But the goal is to get everyone on the same page, You know, get everyone on the same page, build a solid knowledge base, a solid knowledge sharing pipeline, and try and remove as much friction as possible, both for you guys to use it, but also to learn it and also to kind of remove the friction from sharing, from sharing knowledge. I think as we get bigger, it's a little harder for us to share to. To as many people as we'd like to. So this is one of the pieces I had in mind to try and help with that. I think if we can, then, then we have a really good shot at, you know, actually realizing the productivity gains that I think these tools can give us. So. Cool. Here's the thing. Talked about the goals a little bit. I think at this point the models are actually really, really good. They have the raw horsepower to do a lot, definitely a lot more than they could a year ago, six months ago, three weeks ago. And if you're not really getting the results that you want, it's feeling like. And I think it's probably becoming like more of a skill issue at this point rather than a, you know, inadequacy in the model or the tools. So. But that, that's actually a positive thing, right? Because that means that it's something that we can learn and it's something that we can fix. There's like a lot of conversation going on right now. You guys may be feeling some. Some of this, there's just two things I want to, to touch on. We're going to get into, you know, later on we'll get into some, you know, actual real life applicable tips and tricks and strategies. This, this meeting, like I said, is a little bit more higher level just to get this series kicked off. So I think I just wanted to address this, which is, it may have felt like this was something that you could opt into or choose to sit out of before it's, it's becoming pretty clear that this actually, I don't, I don't think it is actually optional. The, There's a major shift in the industry. Everybody's feeling it and if we don't adapt, it'll leave us behind. And it's not just as a company, it's individually in each of our careers. So this is important for each of you guys. It's important for Raven. The other thing that you guys might notice or may start noticing and feeling is that there's kind of like this identity crisis that may end up happening because a lot of us had, you know, we have a lot of pride and we find a lot of joy writing code. You know, it's an art for some of us, it's a craft. And so it's like a little ground shaking if it feels like you no longer have to write code. So I get that. What I would suggest, and I think what others are suggesting are, well, it's really just to try and shift your identity from being a good code writer to being a good problem solver, a good planner, a good communicator. What's it. I mean, these were kind of, these were kind of always important. It's just, it's more obvious now. And a lot of things that we're going to talk about are things that are always and have always been important in software development. Which is funny, just happens to be AI, which is the, you know, the tool that we're using to apply them. But I think the job really, and, and you know, my favorite engineers to work with are the ones that just like to solve problems and it doesn't really matter how. So the medium may be changing, you may be relying on AI to write the code more. But I think the core aspects of the job actually aren't we just solve problems. Happens to be with code. Before we had to type it, now we just type instructions. Right. So there's an analogy that I, that I feel like makes sense and I've felt this, and I think others are feeling this anytime that I, you know, a new editor comes out or a new tool, new language, new framework, you switch over to it, try it out, and you're like, oh, my, I'm very slow. I don't know, this thing, it's annoying. I'm just going to go back to what's comfortable because I feel faster sometimes, that's okay other times and, and you know, the experience that I've had is if you can actually just push through that barrier where you're feeling uncomfortable, a lot of times you unlock a lot of speed or productivity or new skills that you didn't have before. And you know, it's the same as like learning a new language, programming or, you know, spoken right. It's frustrating, it's hard, it's, it's disappointing. All these things, exhausting. But the more you do it and if you continue to leave yourself in that uncomfortable space, the faster you grow. And that's where, you know, you can gain true fluency. I think, you know, we're trying to do that really that same thing, but with AI. So, you know, I mentioned that there's, there's these core, there's these core philosophies in software development that actually aren't changing. You know, maybe there's some, you know, a lot less code writing, you know, physical typing of syntax, but a lot of the core principles of software development haven't changed. Even though you may not realize that this or these things existed, you know, kind of surfacing, these learning, some of these core principles are going to help us in the transition. So these are the three, these are the, you know, the core. It should have been our core development workflow beforehand. It wasn't always. Now it kind of needs to be right. So I'm going to dig into this quite a bit. Well, I think over the course of the series, over the course of the year, the next coming weeks, we're going to expand on some of these categories. I'm just going to talk about them high level right now and get our feet wet and get us introduced. But we're going to expand this plan phase, we're going to expand the execute and the verify phase and talk about different ways that we can make those effective for you with AI tooling before and now, but especially now, and probably even more now, the planning that you do before you actually implement something directly correlates to the result that you're going to get. The more planning and the better your plan is, the better the outcome is going to be. And, and like I said, that has, I think, always been the case. The more you think about it, whether it's, you know, fleshing out requirements or writing down some pseudocode to figure out how the flow should look like, whatever you know, spending that time has always been important. Models really, you know, these tools really, really thrive, and it reduces a lot of the variability. If you spend more time than you think you should, even it feels a little unnatural how long you spend or should spend planning. But you'll make up for that once you get to phase two. So two is where we really need to lean. You know, I want to, I want to push everybody to kind of lead. This is the, this is the comfort zone that everyone's probably going to be stepping out of in this phase, which is I want to, I want to push you guys over time to try and figure out how we can trust our tools more, trust the models more that we're working with, you know, and don't give up as soon as it's kind of a, you know, it's not something that you expected. We're all kind of learning, we're experimenting. Like I said, I think it's possible. And if we don't give up as soon as it's uncomfortable, then I think we can kind of figure out some workflows and, and, and figure out how to make this thing work. There's a bunch of things that will go in that go into this phase, actually, that can produce a better outcome. We can talk about, you know, we can talk about standards and we can talk about, you know, different plugins and different skills and all the different buzzwords. We'll get into that. But, But I think really what I want to just drive home right now is, is this is probably where people are most uncomfortable. And I challenge you guys to sit in that uncomfortable space longer and see what we can figure out here. The last step. Again, it's always been the case we need to be spending time verifying the output of step number two. A lot of this can be automated. And I think that this year and probably going forward, there's going to be a lot more time, effort, resources that are put into automatically being able to verify that our work is producing what we'd expect. You know, there's a lot of times in the past, or almost every time in the past, where, you know, you're working on a new project, it's a startup or something, and they just want to move fast. First thing to go is like, always tests. And I, I have a feeling that if we actually stop doing that, spend time and even it might even not be that much time. Right. You know, the AI is pretty good at writing tests, and as long as you're reviewing it and stuff. But if we spend time in the infrastructure to help automate the verification step, it's going to give us more confidence in what we're shipping. But it also enables the AI to check if it's doing a good job. Right. It's going to be running the test, it's going to be running the builds and the linting and the compilers and all the different things, so that it can do that for us without us having to, like, intervene as much. Which doesn't mean that we don't have to intervene and review, but it can go a lot further and it'll do a lot better job if we, you know, if we spend some time here, so. You know, I think it's worth mentioning. I think, I think the automated tests and verification step is really important for us this year. But just as important, if not more important, is continuing to have a human in the loop. You guys reviewing the code manually, QA testing, putting on, you know, your QA hats and, you know, well, some of the things I, you know, I mentioned this, I think, in my message, but, you know, there might be like, you might see code in here or, or, you know, development or something like that. But these, all these, all these things apply to all of the verticals and all of the tech stacks that we have at Raven. Right. Including design, including qa. So, you know, I think the lines are just blurring and, you know, in this last step, we all get to become better qa. Okay, so really quick, we're, we're going to be, we're going to be building kind of like an AI platform core team. I don't really know what we're going to call it yet, AI maxers or something, but really it's like we're going to be building similar to how we have tech leads and tech teams around tech stacks. I think we're going to be building similar teams or a similar team around AI and AI assisted development. So right now, you know, I'll just kind of introduce you. It's, it's a, it's a small team right now. It'll grow over time. Pedro's been helping me out a lot. You guys have probably seen them all over the AI channel. So I, you know, I'll let Pedro talk. Maybe you can introduce yourself really quick. And then he's got, he's got a few thoughts he wants to share briefly just on, on what his journey was like and, and how he's gotten to where he is now. So. Pedro, are you here, man? 

Pedro Guimaraes
Yes, I am here. Hi, I'm Pedro. I've been, I've been using like AI assistant development for about one year now. Like, like pretty much exclusively. The first experience I, I really had was like in October 2024 and, and I, I, at that time I decided I was going to write like a camera app using just Chat, GPT and just the chatbot. It was terrible. And then I, I drop it. And like in the beginning of the 2025, I still felt like it was a bit lame. And for, in fact, I felt it was so lame that the autocomplete with copilot on versus code, I never really used those kind of things because at the time I didn't feel. It had any value. But today I see how like, it makes me more productive, but not in the sense that I my output is that much higher, but it makes me more productive that I feel like the quality of what I deliver is higher in the same amount of time that will take me to write manually. I do feel like I do catch a lot more like edge cases. I do, I do navigate the unknown areas of a code base or the unknown areas of a framework or offer architecture much better now because like in programming there was always like the classic problem of I want to know more about X, but then you just, you find out that you need to also learn more about Y and Z to understand X. And then to understand Z you need to understand A, B and C. And I feel like since iterating and brainstorming is pretty much frictionless and CLAUDE and other models that they can read and analyze huge amount of documentation much faster than me. I feel like iterating with Claude, like helps me navigating and know faster. And when you try, like, when you really try, like I'm going to try to make this thing produce code at a quality that I like or code at the quality that I would write. You realize the process rewards the same engineering standards as always. Like, you end up adding a bunch of like verification, a bunch of like all the automation, some scripts you use. Like, you create a developer process that rewards good engineering practice and also rewards having in your code base well defined standards, a good architecture. Because if you have that, if you have examples, if you have reference, the AI is pretty good at replicating that and you can kind of go on a loop. So the good engineering practice help the AI and AI helps you and then you help achieving even higher engineering standards and so on. I do like today I do, as I said, I do get a lot more edge cases. I do a lot of things that I would have missed. I enforce it now on my architecture or on my new future, my new feature, my new component. I do get a lot of things for free, like. You could do get a lot of tests for free. If you want to try new ideas, if you want to try different libraries, different approaches, it's much faster to test those as well. And today, like, as I say, as it says on the slide, I pretty much write all my code using cloud. Very rarely I go there and write it like manually. But as I said, I'm still on the loop. I'm still like, I don't let like Claude do everything on his own. Like, it's not vibe coding, it's like kind of like vibing engineering. So I still have like a good understanding of the code base, I have a good understanding of the product and I'm still on the loop. And it also helps me be more complete when talking to other areas like product design, QA and so on. So in this sense it makes me more productive, it makes me more complete. And I still get the joy of programming because at least for me, the joy of programming is seeing what you build working. Like you build something cool, you build something that you like to show people, or build something for you and see it working. Like, I feel like from now on this is like the profile, the mentality you need to have. You're more like, you enjoy building things more than we enjoy writing code. And I feel like that's where we're going forward. And if someone says it's like, it's easy to do this, it's not like vibe coding is easy, but if you want to try to like, going to make this thing right with a decent or good excellent amount of quality is actually kind of hard. So, and it changes a lot. But the good engineering practice always apply. Like, good knowledge of architecture, system architecture, good product knowledge always apply. And, and I, I a little tidbit for people that I, I used to procrastinate a lot as well. Like I, if you have ADHD or you procrastinate a lot because it's pretty much frictionless. I almost never procrastinate, like, because if I get stuck, if I get blocked, it's much easier like to. Unblock myself or it's much easier to debug something now. And it's most much, it's not only is more productive, it's more joyful. So for me that, that's a very good part of it. And I felt like I talked a lot already so I gonna pack back it to Donovan. 

Donovan Hiland
Yeah, it's okay. Thanks Pedro. Well, we'll gotta get used to get you hearing you talk because I think will be listening to a lot more in a lot of these, a lot of these sessions we have. Man, I'm gonna beat this like a, you know, like a dead horse. But. I think now more than ever, you know, we are deep in a phase where we need to be continuously learning. We can't really be, can't really be just complacent or stagnant in where we are technically in our careers and our skills. You know, everyone needs to be taking ownership of your own learning. We are going to try and help you as much as possible, but at the end of the day it's going to come down to you guys really trying these things. Experimenting, figuring out what's working, what's not going to work, understanding why it's working or not working. You know, some of the ways you can do this kind of. Pedro already mentioned, there's a lot of people at Raven we can talk to to try and you know, to, to share knowledge and figure this out. But we can also talk to our little AI friends. And I think that, you know, one of the things that we should lean into for sure is actually talking to them more than maybe you think you should. And I don't remember if I have another slide on this, but I think I do. It's the next one. Talk to it more than you think. Asking questions, reason with it, ask it why it chose something or what the trade offs were. And start there. You can get, you can make a lot of progress there. Right. So yeah, ask it why it did that. The other thing though is it's not just us that need to be continuously learning kind of, you know, first little, little tip trick tidbit here is that the experience for each of us in our projects for you guys individually is going to be exponentially better if you help your AI companion continuously learn. Right. One of the most frustrating things is when you're constantly and consistently telling it to do something that you've already told it to do or fix. That's one of the things that turns a lot of people away. There's ways to fix that. We'll go into it, but to start honestly, you know, it might be interesting. So, first of all, there are, you know, agent and cloud MD files that you can. That you can build. These are rules. It's your project's memory. It's rules that help define how things are going to work. How you guys like them to work, maybe specifically for your project. Standards and things can be, you know, can be hooked up here. There's a lot of other ways to hook up memory and rules and standards and things. We'll get to those things later. To start, you know, this is, this is probably one of the best and lowest barrier to entry ways to start this piece. Start your AI learning in your project, which is set up an MD cloud, MD file, and anytime you find it breaking something or doing something over and over again that you told it not to do or doing it wrong, you can get it to fix it, teach it how, and then tell it to add a rule so that it doesn't happen again. And if it does happen again, you know, going back to, you know, talking to Claude more. If it does happen again, ask it why. What about the rules were conflicting or unclear? What do we need to change in the rules? And, and I mean, you guys could probably write the rules yourself, but again, as we're kind of leaning into this, I would figure out and push your, your AI friend to do it for you. I don't know if we need to spend a bunch of time here. It's just a bunch of examples. You guys, you guys know, ask me questions, talk to Claude. I think I'll probably skip over this because I touched on it quite a bit already. But, yeah, talk to it more than you think. This meeting is one of, you know, probably a bunch of other initiatives that we'll have to help us just kind of learn together. You know, we've got, we've got a lot of people that are even now. I think we're, you know, somewhere between 200 and 250 people now. That's a lot of people to try and get up to speed. I think if we each kind of take our part and, you know, we're, each of us individually experiment and try things and figure this out. Start, start sharing that with your teams. You know, I'm thinking, like, get into your standups and start making it a regular part of your standup meetings to talk about. Check out this thing I did. Tested this out with AI. Here's what didn't work. Here's what did work. I added a rule to the project that's kind of a baby step, but, you know, spend a minute in your standups and start talking about some of the things that are working for you guys and, and not working. You know, I think, I think it, I can't remember who said it, but it feels like it felt like at least we were all just kind of wandering around in the dark, kind of learning together or learning independently and not really sharing our knowledge with each other. You know, we kind of had the AI channel a little bit, but this is an effort that I, you know, I think if all of us are doing this, just think about having 200 plus smart people figuring this out, sharing our knowledge. Like, I think it's going to, you know, we're going to, we're going to get up to speed a lot faster than we might think. Think so. But that starts at the individual level and then I want to challenge you guys to do this at the team level as well. Start really sharing this, make an effort, don't skip it. Share the things that you guys are learning amongst your teams. We're going to figure out, you know, what that means and how we can share our those learnings across teams and across Raven. But I think that's a good enough start for you guys. We're going to be doing these bi weekly meetings, you know, I think, you know, we're going to find ways to, to surface these, these learnings and these wins or challenges. And I think over time, if we can do that, then we're going to start to. Yeah, we'll be able to figure it out, I think, and fast. So all that's really left is that you guys just kind of have to get started. Going to be working on getting everybody access to something, whether it's through your client or whether it's through Raven. We're going to be sending out, you know, kind of we're phasing in on all of our teams into cloud code licenses. But, you know, it might be hard to get started. Push yourselves to dive in. Pick something small if you need to, to start just to see how it works. You know, practice spending a lot of time in your plan and practice putting on your, you know, your QA hat and, and really spending a lot of time they're making it the quality because our goal is to improve, you know, increase productivity without decreasing quality. Right. And so all these pieces are important to make sure that happens. Okay, that's it. We're gonna, you know, I don't know if we'll probably post a schedule or something. We're going to be figuring this out. We might adjust it over as time goes, but we're gon to, we're going to dive into some planning at some point. Maybe next time we're going to do, do a deep dive on execution. These aren't necessarily a single, you know, a single office hours chat, but we might break these up. Like there's a lot of stuff that's I think will be helpful. You guys have some homework though, because it's going to be a lot more useful for you if you guys are all deep in these tools and, and, and running into the roadblocks and the challenges because then hopefully the tips and tricks that we have will kind of make more sense. You know, if we give them all to you now, it's going to be overwhelming and hard to understand, but there's a lot to go over. I think it's going to be a cool year. Things are changing really fast, so we'll probably, you know, try and cover some of the new, you know, things that are updating and changing over time, new features and, and paradigms. But, yeah, I'm excited. I'm excited. I think that's it, guys, really. If you leave with nothing else, I would say just get out there and start trying and take ownership over your own learning. That'll be a great start for us and I think we'll be able to make it work. Normally we'll probably have maybe like some time for questions or some discussion at the end. We're kind of over time right now, so maybe not this time, but yeah. Guys, I appreciate you guys joining. I'm excited about this series. I think it's going to be helpful for me and for everyone. You know, I'd love to get everyone from all different tech stacks and experiences in here, you know, design and QA and our different tech stacks kind of talking about what works for those and yeah, just really like you know, pouring gas on us being able to to learn together as a company. Okay, well I think that's it for our first Buy It Monthly AI Dev office hours. Thanks for joining guys. I will post. I'll try and post the recording somewhere, maybe in the general channel or something. I'm not sure. So you guys can check it out if you want. I've got the slideshow. I can send that to you guys as well. And yeah, happy Vibe Friday. Thanks everyone. 

josegomes
Guys. Bye.
